docs/manual/scala/guide/cluster/PersistentEntityCassandra.md, before:

# Storing Persistent Events in Cassandra

This page describes how to configure Cassandra for use with [[Persistent Entity|PersistentEntity]] API or Akka Typed Persistence in a Lagom service .

## Project dependencies

To use Cassandra add the following in your project's build:

In Maven:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.lightbend.lagom</groupId>
    <artifactId>lagom-scaladsl-persistence-cassandra_${scala.binary.version}</artifactId>
    <version>${lagom.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

In sbt:

@[cassandra-dependency](code/build-cluster.sbt)

## Configuration

Lagom's persistence needs a few tables to store its data. These tables are stored in Cassandra keyspaces. A keyspace in Cassandra is a namespace that defines data replication on Cassandra nodes. Each service should use a unique keyspace name so that the tables of different services do not conflict with each other. You need to configure the keyspaces that are used for these tables in each of your service implementation projects.

Cassandra keyspace names must start with an alphanumeric character and contain only alphanumeric and underscore characters. They are case-insensitive and stored in lowercase.

Lagom has three internal components that require keyspace configuration:

* The **journal** stores serialized events
* The **snapshot store** stores snapshots of the state as an optimization for faster recovery (see [[Snapshots|PersistentEntity#Snapshots]] for details)
* The **offset store** is used for [[Cassandra Read-Side support|ReadSideCassandra]] to keep track of the most recent event handled by each read-side processor (detailed in [[Read-side design|ReadSide#Read-side-design]]).

You can configure these keyspace names in each service implementation project's `application.conf` file:

```conf
cassandra-journal.keyspace = my_service_journal
cassandra-snapshot-store.keyspace = my_service_snapshot
lagom.persistence.read-side.cassandra.keyspace = my_service_read_side
```

While different services should be isolated by using different keyspaces, it is perfectly fine to use the same keyspace for all of these components within one service. In that case, it can be convenient to define a custom keyspace configuration property and use [property substitution](https://github.com/typesafehub/config#factor-out-common-values) to avoid repeating it.

```conf
my-service.cassandra.keyspace = my_service

cassandra-journal.keyspace = ${my-service.cassandra.keyspace}
cassandra-snapshot-store.keyspace = ${my-service.cassandra.keyspace}
lagom.persistence.read-side.cassandra.keyspace = ${my-service.cassandra.keyspace}
```

When your service starts up, Lagom creates these keyspaces by default if they are missing, and automatically creates its internal tables within them. If you prefer to manage the schema explicitly, you can disable automatic creation with these properties:

```conf
cassandra-journal {
  keyspace-autocreate = false
  tables-autocreate = false
}
cassandra-snapshot-store {
  keyspace-autocreate = false
  tables-autocreate = false
}
lagom.persistence.read-side.cassandra {
  keyspace-autocreate = false
}
```

With these properties set to `false`, if the keyspaces or tables are missing at startup your service will log an error and fail to start.

Lagom's Cassandra support is provided by the [`akka-persistence-cassandra`](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-persistence-cassandra/0.100/) plugin. A full configuration reference is available in the plugin's [`reference.conf`](https://github.com/akka/akka-persistence-cassandra/blob/v0.100/core/src/main/resources/reference.conf).

## Cassandra Location

Lagom will start an embedded Cassandra server when running in developer mode. You can review the configuration options or how to disable the embedded server in the section on Cassandra Server in [[Running Lagom in development|CassandraServer]].

In production you usually will prefer a dynamically locatable Cassandra server for resiliency. If you need to use a static list of contact-points to locate your Cassandra server review the section on deploying using static service location for Cassandra Service in [[Running Lagom in Production|ProductionOverview#Using-static-Cassandra-contact-points]].

Commit message:

Improve documentation for events-by-tag configuration for offsets
After discovering the issue in a project and witnessing the behavior with the
base samples, the recommended solution from akka's issue
https://github.com/akka/akka-persistence-cassandra/issues/867 does not apply
correctly since lagom-persistence-cassandra overrides the configuration setting
location. This does introduce a seveeral minute delay as time moves on for
equally nearly empty databases. This configuration speeds up the time difference
between the "first" events being received by ReadSideProcessors from a
several minute 'eventually-consistent' delay to practically a second to ready.

docs/manual/scala/guide/cluster/PersistentEntityCassandra.md, after:

# Storing Persistent Events in Cassandra

This page describes how to configure Cassandra for use with [[Persistent Entity|PersistentEntity]] API or Akka Typed Persistence in a Lagom service .

## Project dependencies

To use Cassandra add the following in your project's build:

In Maven:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.lightbend.lagom</groupId>
    <artifactId>lagom-scaladsl-persistence-cassandra_${scala.binary.version}</artifactId>
    <version>${lagom.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

In sbt:

@[cassandra-dependency](code/build-cluster.sbt)

## Configuration

Lagom's persistence needs a few tables to store its data. These tables are stored in Cassandra keyspaces. A keyspace in Cassandra is a namespace that defines data replication on Cassandra nodes. Each service should use a unique keyspace name so that the tables of different services do not conflict with each other. You need to configure the keyspaces that are used for these tables in each of your service implementation projects.

Cassandra keyspace names must start with an alphanumeric character and contain only alphanumeric and underscore characters. They are case-insensitive and stored in lowercase.

Lagom has three internal components that require keyspace configuration:

* The **journal** stores serialized events
* The **snapshot store** stores snapshots of the state as an optimization for faster recovery (see [[Snapshots|PersistentEntity#Snapshots]] for details)
* The **offset store** is used for [[Cassandra Read-Side support|ReadSideCassandra]] to keep track of the most recent event handled by each read-side processor (detailed in [[Read-side design|ReadSide#Read-side-design]]).

You can configure these keyspace names in each service implementation project's `application.conf` file:

```conf
cassandra-journal.keyspace = my_service_journal
cassandra-snapshot-store.keyspace = my_service_snapshot
lagom.persistence.read-side.cassandra.keyspace = my_service_read_side
```

While different services should be isolated by using different keyspaces, it is perfectly fine to use the same keyspace for all of these components within one service. In that case, it can be convenient to define a custom keyspace configuration property and use [property substitution](https://github.com/typesafehub/config#factor-out-common-values) to avoid repeating it.

```conf
my-service.cassandra.keyspace = my_service

cassandra-journal.keyspace = ${my-service.cassandra.keyspace}
cassandra-snapshot-store.keyspace = ${my-service.cassandra.keyspace}
lagom.persistence.read-side.cassandra.keyspace = ${my-service.cassandra.keyspace}
```

When your service starts up, Lagom creates these keyspaces by default if they are missing, and automatically creates its internal tables within them. If you prefer to manage the schema explicitly, you can disable automatic creation with these properties:

```conf
cassandra-journal {
  keyspace-autocreate = false
  tables-autocreate = false
}
cassandra-snapshot-store {
  keyspace-autocreate = false
  tables-autocreate = false
}
lagom.persistence.read-side.cassandra {
  keyspace-autocreate = false
}
```

With these properties set to `false`, if the keyspaces or tables are missing at startup your service will log an error and fail to start.

Lagom's Cassandra support is provided by the [`akka-persistence-cassandra`](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-persistence-cassandra/0.100/) plugin. A full configuration reference is available in the plugin's [`reference.conf`](https://github.com/akka/akka-persistence-cassandra/blob/v0.100/core/src/main/resources/reference.conf).

### Important Note Regarding `lagom-persistence-cassandra` Configuration

While persistent entities store their events in a journal, the initial offset scanning for persisted events is different from [akka-persistence's configuration](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-persistence-cassandra/current/events-by-tag.html) such that the initial offset is *overridden* by [lagom-persistence-cassandra](https://github.com/lagom/lagom/blob/master/persistence-cassandra/core/src/main/resources/play/reference-overrides.conf):
```conf
cassandra-query-journal {
  first-time-bucket = "20160225T00:00"

  plugin-dispatcher = "lagom.persistence.dispatcher"
}
```
This configuration value does introduce a significant delay in event stream handling *at first system startup of the cluster* due to the intrinsic scan for all events since the predefined offset! It's recommended to set the first-time-bucket to a timestamp relevant to project initial-start time.

## Cassandra Location

Lagom will start an embedded Cassandra server when running in developer mode. You can review the configuration options or how to disable the embedded server in the section on Cassandra Server in [[Running Lagom in development|CassandraServer]].

In production you usually will prefer a dynamically locatable Cassandra server for resiliency. If you need to use a static list of contact-points to locate your Cassandra server review the section on deploying using static service location for Cassandra Service in [[Running Lagom in Production|ProductionOverview#Using-static-Cassandra-contact-points]].
